# What I did this week (June, 1st, 2015)

* I fixed some bugs, did some changes to foreground background segmentation for approximate ES. For binary problems, the results are now the same as Vladimir's.
* I started to use dense-crf with approximate ES. 
There are different variants:
    1. **approximate pairwise vs. exact pairwise**:
        * **approximate pairwise**: computing pairwise as is being done in the paper (approximated filtering). As far as I understood, it sets $Q$'s (variables in mean field) according to the map labeling ($Q_i(l) = 1$ if $x_i = l$, and $0$ otherwise, for all labeling $l$ of $Q_i$ ) and then does the filtering by permutohedral lattice! This is the magic done in message passing update of the mean field algorithm as in ``eq. 4`` and ``algorithm 2``.
        * **exact pairwise**: I compute exact energies as in the paper.
    2. **No normalization** of each $\psi_p$ **vs. pixelwise normalization vs. mean normalization**:
       as mentioned in the paper : (top of ``page 6``). I divided each $\psi_(x_i,x_j)$ by those formulas ($\hat{k}_i$ or $\hat{k}$).
    3.  **initialization vs no initialization**:
       * **initialization:** I used the labelings of the two intersecting lines as the initial values for the $Q$'s in mean field. ($0.75$ if $x_i = l$ and $0.25/(\#labels-1)$ for other labels for each $Q_i$)
    * **no initialization**: each $Q_i(x_i) = \frac{1}{Z_i} \exp\{-\psi_u(x_i)\}$. The same as the paper and original code.


* Some stats:
pixelwise normalization with exact pairwise tooked 72 iterations in approximateES
mean normalization with exact pairwise tooked 68 iterations in approximateES
others had few iterations (~4 to ~20)

I have not yet implemented the policy for selecting $\lambda$s it's just a queue now. I did some parallelization  for computing exact pairwise energy, but not yet implemented the way that we can compute them using the energy computed in last iteration.

The code is here: 
[https://github.com/AmirooR/approximateES/blob/dense/dense/examples/dense_inference.cpp](https://github.com/AmirooR/approximateES/blob/dense/dense/examples/dense_inference.cpp) 
in dense branch. Other part of approximateES is in this project: [https://github.com/AmirooR/approximateES](https://github.com/AmirooR/approximateES/blob/dense/dense/examples/dense_inference.cpp)